

Delhi High Court

Anand Kumar Deepak Kumar & Anr. vs Haldiram Bhujia Wala & Anr. on 13 May, 1999

Equivalent citations: 1999 VAD Delhi 41, 80 (1999) DLT 26, (1999) 122 PLR 65

Author: J Goel

Bench: J Goel

JUDGMENT J.B. Goel, J.

1\. Plaintiff No. 1, M/s. Anand Kumar Pradeep Kumar, a partnership firm
constituted by Shiv Rattan Aggarwal, Manmohan Lal Aggarwal and Madhu Sudan
Aggarwal and plaintiff No. 2 Shiv Kishan Aggarwal all sons of Late Mool Chand
have filed a suit for permanent injunction against the defendents alleging
that they are the registered proprietors of the trade mark and continuous user
through their ancestors since 1941 of the trade mark name and trade mark
"HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA". They had strated a shop at 1454, Chandni Chowk, Delhi
and doing business there since 1983 using the said trade mark. The defendents
intended to start a new shop to carry on similar business under the same
tradename and with the same trademark at Karol Bagh, New Delhi. They sought an
injunction. The suit was intially filed in the Court of the District Judge,
Delhi on 10.12.1991. However, subsequently, the plaintiff amended the plaint
incorporating claim for recovery of damages of Rs. 6.00 lakhs which exceeded
the pecuniary jurisdiction of that Court and the plaint was returned under
Order 7, Rule 10A of the Code of Civil Procedure (for short the Code). The
suit was presented in this Court on 17.2.1992.

2\. Briefly the case of the plaintiffs is that late Shri Ganga Bishan who was
also known as Haldiram Bhujiawala, had been doing his business of manufacture
and sale of salted preparations like Bhujia, papads and sweets etc. since his
chilhood since before 1941 under the name and style of " Chand Mal Ganga
Bishan" and "HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA" initially in Bikaner and later on also
started in Calcutta he formed a partnership firm in the year 1965 under the
name and style of M/s. Chand Mal Ganga Bishan with four partners: (1) Ganga
Bishan (himself), (2) Mool Chand (his son), (3) Shiv Kishan (son of Mool
Chand) and (4) Smt. Kamla Devi, w/o Shri Rameshwar Lal(his daughter in law).
The said firm had adopted the trademark of HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA".

3\. On 29.12.1972, the said four partners applied to the Registrar of
Trademarks for the registration of the said trademark in Class 30. The
trademark was advertised in Trademark journal and in due course was registered
as No. 285062 ( on 27.1.1981) as on 29.12.1972 in respect of sale of Bhujia,
papad fried, namkeen, saltish dal etc. in class 30 in Part A in India except
the State of West Bengal in the names of the aforesaid following four partners
of the firm, namely:

1\. Shri Ganga Bishan @ Haldiram,

2\. Shri Mool Chand,

3\. Shri Shiv Kishan, and

4\. Smt. Kamla Devi.

4\. The said partnership firm was dissolved by means of dissolution deed dated
16.11.1974 and thereby the registered trade mark No. 285062 was
allotted/assigned exclusively to Shri Mool Chand for the whole of India Except
the State of West Bengal; and it was agreed that in the territory of the State
of West Bengal Smt. Kamla Devi or her representatives could carry on similar
business there. Relevant Clause No. 3, 7, and 8 of the Dissolution Deed dated
16.11.1974 provide as under :

"3 That the Second Party shall be entitled to carry on the said business under
the name and style of M/s CHANDMAL GANGABISHAN also trading as HALDIRAM
BHUJIAWALA having its Head Office at Bhujia Bazar, Bikaner and/or at such
other place or places, as he may think fit and proper under the said or style.
The trademark "HRB-HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA" shall be utilised by the party here to
of the Second party throughout India except in the Territory of West Bengal.
The Territory of West Bengal shall be utilised by the party hereto of the
Fourth Part and/or by hae representatives. The other partners shall have no
objection in using the trademark by the parties hereto of the Second and
Fourth Parts as mentioned above.

7\. That the Second Party shall be at liberty to carry on the business either
as a solepro prietor or may invite partners and carry on the business in
partnership and deal with the trademark "HRB-HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA" Regd. at No.
285062 in Class 30 in any manner, he may deem fit and proper.

8\. That parties hereto of the First, Third and Fourth parts shall have no
onjection if the Regd. Trade Mark No. 285062 in class 30 is transferred in the
name of the Second Party in the records of the Registrar of Trade Marks by
taking proper proceedings."

5\. Mool Chand is described as party No. 2 and Smt. Kamla Devi as party No.
4.]

6\. Shri Rameshwar Lal husband of Smt. Kamla Devi simutaneously by a seperate
writing of same date also had acknowledged, declared and recognised this right
of Mool Chand as a sole/exclusive user and propietor of this trademark. That
writing reads as under:

"Dated:16.11.1974.

TO WHOM SO EVER IT MAY CONCERN This is to confirm that the name Haldi Ram
Bhujiawala (HRB) which was originally adopted and used by my father since 1941
shall remain the sole property of my brother Mool Chand and his
representatives for whole of India except the State of West Bengal. I or any
of my representatives shall not claim any further right on this and I shall
trade under the name Haldi Ram Bhujiawala in West Bengal only.

sd/-

(RAMESHWAR LAL AGGARWAL)

7\. Ganga Bishan died in 1980. Mool Chand also died on 30.7.1985 leaving
behind him his four sons, namely, Shiv Kishan Aggarwal, Shiv Rattan Aggarwal,
Manohar Lal Aggarwal and Madhu Sudan Aggarwal, besides two daughters and his
wife. The widow and the two daughters gave "no objections", thereby
relinquishing their right in the said trademark and agreeing for transfer of
the registration of the trademark in the names of the aforesaid four sons of
Mool Chand. These four sons of Mool Chand had made an application before the
Registrar Trade Marks on 22.11.1985 for renewal and transmission of the said
Registered Trade Mark No. 285062 in their names. Their application was allowed
and they have been registered as subsequent proprietors of the said trade mark
as from 30.7.1985, and the trademark was renewed in their names for 7 years
ending on 28.12.1986 as per certificate issued on 28.2.1989. The trade mark
was further renewed in their names for 7 years from 29.12.1993. After the
institution of this suit the aforsaid four persons have formed a company under
the Companies Act, 1956 with the name of M/s. Haldiram India (Pvt.) Ltd.
having registered office at B-1/H8, Mohan Cooperative Industrial Estate,
Mathura Road, New Delhi and on their application this trade mark was
transfered and the said caompany has been registered as subsequent proprietors
of the said trademark as from 27.7.1995. The trademark now stands renewed upto
29.12.2000 in the name of the company.

8\. Plaintiff No. 1, the partnership firm had strated their business at 1454,
Chandni Chowk, Delhi in the year of 1983 doing the same business and using the
registered trademark " Haldiram Bhujiawala" . It is alleged that the
defendants had never carried on the business anywhere else except in Calcutta
not they were entitled to carry on business beyond West Bengal and they are
not entitled to do business at Karol Bagh, Delhi under the name of Haldiram
Bhujiawala nor entitled to use the trademark "Haldiram Bhujiawala". And their
threat/intention to start such business was illegal. Alongwith the suit an
application for ad interim injunction was filed before the learned District
Judge. Temporary injunction was granted by the learned Additional District
Judge on 10.12.1991.

9\. The defendants in their written statement have disputed the claim of the
plaintiff. They have pleaded that their father late Shri Rameshwar Lal
Aggarwal was the first invento, adopter and user of this trade mark since the
year 1958, (as against plaintiff's claim since 1965) and doing his business
under this tradename and trademark since then; who had also made application
for the registeration of this trademark in class 30 in the names of Shri
Rameshwar Lal Aggarwal and Shri Prabhu Shanker Aggarwal trading at 7, Jugmohan
Mullick Lane, Calcutta-7 claiming its user since 1958, which was registered as
No. 330375, and later on the trademark was registered in their names as per
certificate dated September 11,1980 as on 2.11.1977 and they have been using
this trademark continuously. It is thus claimed that they being the prior user
of the trademark have better and overriding rights over the rights of the
plaintiffs.

10\. Arguments have been addressed at length. Both claiming roght on the basis
of prior user.

11\. Two questions arise: (1) Who are the first adopters/users of the
trademark; and (2) What is the effect of assignment of the trademark in
question to be exclusively used by Mool Chand by virtue of dissolution deed
dated 16.11.1974?

12\. It is not disputed that the parties in the suit are the successors
(grandsons) of late Shri Ganga Bishan, plaintiff being the sons of his son
Mool Chand whereas defendants are the sons of his other son Rameshwar Lal.
Both the parties have relied on documents in support of their respective
claim.

13\. It appears that some third party namely Haldiram Madan Lal trading at
Calcutta had also sought registration of this very trademark "Haldiram
Bhujiawala" through Application No. 284166 B in Class 30. Ganga Bishan @
Haldiram s/o Chandmal then aged 75 years had opposed it and in his affidavit
filed in Opposition No. CAL-1048 on 25.6.1976, in paras 1 and 2 of his
affidavit he had claimed as under:

1\. That "HALDIRAM" is my nick- name and I have been commonly known and called
by the name Haldiram than personal name "GANGAB ISHAN".

2\. That from my very young age I have been in the business of manufacturing
and sale of Bhujia, Papad, Namkin and Sweet-Meals and have been trading under
the Trade Name "HALDIRAM BHUJIAWALA" at Bikaner. The tradename Haldiram
Bhujiawala is presently being used by me....

XXX XXXX XXX

14\. Rameshwar Lal Aggarwal ( Predecessor-in-interest of the defendants) in
Opposition Proceedings against his Application No. 330375 for registration of
the trademark in his name, in para 3 of his affidavit dated 19.6.1978 has been
admitted the use of this trademark by his father, as under :

3\. .....Haldiram form the essential part of the trademark of the firm of my
father who was trading in the name and style of "Haldiram Bhujiawala" since
his young age".

15\. This admission made by the predecessor-in-interest of the defendants
would bind the latter. It shows that this tradename and trademark was not
invented/adopted first by Shri Rameshwar Lal as now claimed by defendants, but
by his father late Shri Ganga Bash an since his childhood using the tradename
of Haldiram Bhujiawala in the course of his business. Shri Ganga Bishan died
in the year 1980 at the age of over 75 years. He must have been using this
tradename for over 40 years before his death as claimed by the plaintiffs.

16\. Plaintiffs have placed on record copy of Certificate No. 137011 dated
27.1.1981 whereby this trademark " Haldiram Bhujiawala" (with the logo HRB in
a particulars design) has been registered as No. 285062 w.e.f. 29.12.1972 in
Class 30 for India except the State of West Bengal in the name of (1) Ganga
Bishan @ Haldiram, (2) Mool Chand, (3) Shiv Krishan and (4) Kamla Devi trading
under the name of "Haldiram Bhujiawala" and "Chand Mal Ganga Bishan", Bhujia
Bazar, Bikaner. They as parners were using this trademark and their
partnership firm was dissolved on the terms agreed in dissolution deed dated
16.11.1974. In its Clauses 3,7, and 8 already reproduced, Shri Ganga Bishan,
Shiv Krishan and Smt. Kamla Devi had eliquished/assigned their right and claim
in this trade mark in favour of Mool Chand exclusively for the whole of India
except the State of West Bengal.

17\. Shri Rameshwar Lal, husband of Kamla Devi had also bound himself to this
effect in his declaration dated 16.11.1974 given simutaneously, Smt. Kamla
Devi and her husband and for that matter their heirs and successors are bound
by this and they can use the trademark only within the State of West Bengal
and not beyond that. On the death of Mool Chand on 30.7.1985, on the
application made on 22.11.1985 by his four sons, namely, Shiv Krishan, Shiv
Rattan, Manohar Lal and Madhu Sudan to the registration of the trademark was
transferred in their names vide certificate dated 28.2.1989 issued by the
Registrar of Trademarks inter alia recognising their claim/right on the basis
of the said dissolution deed dated 16.11.1974 and as successors in interest of
Mool Chand nad trademark was renewed in their names and later this trade mark
has been transferred in the name of the aforesaid company formed by them.

18\. Plaintiff No. 1 a partnership firm constituted by three of the sons of
Mool Chand, namely, Madhusudan, Shiv Rattan and Manohar Lal, had started their
business at 1454, Chandni Chowk, Delhi on the year 1983 doing the same
business under the same trademark. The fact of their doing this business since
1983 at Delhi is not disputed by the defendants in their written statement.
Plaintiff No. 2 is the fourth son of Mool Chand who has been registered as
joint user with them. The Plaintiffs who are the successors in interest of
late Ganga Bishan as well as of Mool Chand are thus the registered proprietors
of this trademark having registration as from 29.12.1972. They are also prior
user of the tradename and the trade mark in question in Territory other than
Calcutta. Use or adoption of this trade mark by Rameshwar Lal as alleged even
if it is from the year 1958 has been in Calcutta only as they have not been
using the tradename or trademark in Delhi or rather beyond West Bengal. And by
virtue of dissolution deed dated 16.11.1974, this trademark has been assigned
exclusively to Shri Mool Chand for use in India except the State of West
Bengal. Parties to this settlement and their successors in interest are bound
by it. The defendant are thus bound by this settlement dated 16.11.1974 and as
such they cannot claim any right contrary to its terms. The material placed on
record also shows that the defendants have been using this trade mark in
relation to their business primarily in Calcutta. In any case it is not their
case that they had been doing business in Delhi before this suit was filed on
10.12.1991 nor sale figures in Delhi have been made available.

19\. It is also seen that the application for registration of this trademark
was filed with the Registrar (Trademarks) on 2.11.1977 in the names of Shri
Rameshwar Lal Aggarwal and Shri Prabhu Shankar Aggarwal trading at 9, Jagmohan
Mullick Lane, Calcutta-7 (which was later on registered as No. 330375 in Class
30 on 11.9.1980) was advertised in the Trademark Journal No. 734 dated January
19,1980 wherein its use was claimed only in Calcutta. Before this application
was advertised, the Office of the Registrar had raised an objection in their
letter No. U-3/996 dated 14.4.1978, inter alia, to the effect that the
trademark " Haldiram" was already pending consideration in application No.
285062. To this, a reply dated 18.7.1978 was filed on behalf of the applicants
by Shri R. N. Prabhakar as their Advocate/Attorney, and in para 5 of which he
has stated as under :

5\. As regards the cited pending trademark under Application No. 285062, it is
to submit that applicants are the only firm trading under the name Haldiram
Bhujiawala at Calcutta and no application is pending in the name of the
applicants.

20\. Obviously, it was intended and was so represented on behalf of the
applicants (No. 330375) that the registration was sought for use of the trade
mark only in Calcutta. That was obviously in consonance with the right
reserved to them under the dissolution deed dated 16.11.1974 and otherwise
available to them.

21\. Further in support of his Application No. 330375 by way of
evidence,Rameshwar Lal had filed his affidavit dated 19.6.1978 wherein also he
has not alleged or claimed that he was using this trademark outside Calcutta
or beyond the State of West Bengal.

22\. Shri R.N. Prabhakar, Advocate had acted for and represented the
(plaintiffs)/applicant in Trade Mark No. 285062 made for registration of the
trademark on 29.12.1972 and it was he who had pursued and got the registration
transferred in the names of four sons of Mool Chand vide certificate dated
27.1.1981 from the office of the Registrar, Trade Marks, Shri R.N. Prabhakar,
Advocate, had also made the other Application (No. 330375) for registration of
the trademark on behalf of Rameshwar Lal and Prabhu Shankar Aggarwal on
2.11.1977 it was within his knowledge about the respective rights of the
parties in his trademark though in this application or even in reply dated
18.7.1978 he has not categorically disclosed and declared that the applicants
were entitled to the use of the trademark and tradename in and not beyond the
State of West Bengal, however , he intention obviously was to get the
trademark registered for use in Calcutta only. Otherwise it would be a
deliberate attempt on his part to have cancealed a material fact to obtain
registration in the latter's name . The registrar has not appreciated it and
has overlooked that Shri Rameshwar Lal and Prabhu Shankar had claimed
registration for use in Calcutta only obviously ignored the application No.
285062 filed on 29.12.1972 for registration of this trade mark for India in
names of four other persons already pending consideration and the trademark
was registered (330375) vide certificate issued on 11.9.1980. Registration of
trade mark on the basis of application (No. 285062) filed on 29.12.1972 is
intriguing. There could not be two similar registered trademarks in respect of
same goods operating simultaneously. Either the Registrar has been misled or
the said Registration No. 330375 has been granted fraudulently and in
collusion with the applicants. In respect of a registered trademark , the
rights of the parties are to be determined as at the date of application. And
Sec. 12(1) of the Act is bar against registered of an identical trademark
which is already registered in the name of a different proprietor. Concurrent
use by two or more persons of the same trademark for the same goods is
completely contrary to the whole essence of trademark jurisprudence for a
trademark is intended to denote that the goods come from one source and one
source only.

23\. It appears that after the plaintiff came to know about the registration
of this trademark in the name of the defendants/their predecessor, they lodged
an opposition with the Registrar, Trade Mark. Though that was disallowed but
appeal is admittedly pending before the High Court Calcutta. The registration
of the trademark in the name of defendants/their predeceassor in interest
having effect beyond the State of West Bengal thus is under dispute. Fraud
vitiates all transactions. Registration of the trademark obtained by fraud
would not acquire finally/immunity from challenge under Section 32(a) of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (for short "the Act") Which provides as
under :-

32\. Registration to be conclusive as to validity after seven years. - Subject
to the provisions of Section 35 and Section 46, in all legal proceedings
relating to a trademark registered in Part A of the register including
applications undersection 56 (,the original registration of the trademark
shall, after the expiry of seven years from the date of such registration, be
taken to be avoid in all respect unless it is proved-

(a) that the original registration was obtained by fraud ; or

(b) xx xx xxx

(c) xx xx xx

24\. A party would not be allowed to take advantage of its own fraud and as
such prima facie this trademark could not be availed by the defendants beyond
the State of West Bengal.

25\. The following result emerges from the above discussion:-

1\. Late Shri Ganga Bishan who was also known as Haldiram Bhjiawala was the
inventor/first adopter and first user of the tradename "Haldiram Bhujiawala"
which he had adopted since his childhood in or before 1941 and he has been
doing business in this tradename.

2\. He had adopted and used this trademark "Haldiram Bhujiawala" with the logo
of "HRB" in a particular shape and design since 1965 while doing business in a
partnership under the names and style of: (1) Chand Mal Ganga Bishan and (2)
Haldiram Bhujiawala with four partners, namely, Ganga Bishan (himself), Mool
Chand, Shiv Kishan and Smt. Kamla Devi.

3\. By means of dissolution deed dated 16.11.1974, the trademark was
exclusively assigned to Shri Mool Chand for use in India except the State of
West Bengal.

4\. Smt. Kamla Devi who was a party to the dissolution deed as a partner us
bound by the terms of this issolution deed.

5\. Rameshwar Lal, predecessor-in-interest of the defendants has also bound
himself in his simultaneous declaration made on 16.11.1974
confirming/accepting the same.

6\. After the dissolution of the firm 16.11.1974 Shri Mool Chand exclusively
became entitled to the use of this trademark in India except in the State of
West Bengal.

7\. After the death of Shri Mool Chand, this trademark was transferred to his
four sons, namely, Shiv Kishan Aggarwal, Shiv Rattan Aggarwal, Manohar Lal
Aggarwal and Madhu Sudan Aggarwal w.e.f. July 30, 1985.

And they became the registered subsequent proprietor of this trademark.

8\. Subsequently, this trademark was assigned/transferred in the name of the
company Haldiram (India) Pvt. Ltd. in 1995.

9\. Defendants or their predecessor-in-interest - Ramashwar Lal was doing his
business only in Calcutta.

10\. The plaintiff No.,1 M/s. Anand Kumar, comprising of three sons of Mool
Chand had started a shop in Chandni Chowk in the year 1983 and using the said
trademark. They are prior used of this trademark in Delhi. They thus are both
registered proprietors as well as prior used of this trademark.

26\. The defendants prima facie are not entitled to its use. They have started
a shop in ?Delhi in February, 1992 after this suit was filed, using the
tradename trademark of "Haldiram Bhujiawala" which is infringement of the
registered trade mark of plaintiff, or in any case passing off.

27\. Plaintiff have thus prima facie case in their favour.

28\. Defendants had no business in Delhi when the suit was filed. As such the
question of their suffering any legal injury, damage or loss does arise. The
balance of convenience is also in favour of the plaintiff as if the defendants
are allowed to use indentical trademark concurrently, this will create
confusion among the public and loss, harm and injury to the plaintiff.
Plaintiff have thus made out a strong case of grant of temporary injunction.

29\. This application is accordingly allowed and it is hereby ordered as
under:

1\. Defendants, their agents/representatives/servants or successors-in-
interest are hereby restrained by means of interim injunction from using the
tradename and or/trademark "Haldiram Bhujiawala" with or without the logo, as
registered vide Registration No. 285062 or any other trade mark identical or
deceptively similar thereto, in India except the State of West Bengal;

2\. The defendants shall submit within two months, statement of accounts
showing the details of the sales made by them in Delhi since 10.12.1991 using
this tradename and /or trademark verifying its correctness on affidavit;

3\. The defendants shall make discovery on affidavit within one month of all
the documents, account books, papers etc. relating to such business since
10.12.1991 and shall filed an undertaking that they shall not destroy or part
with such documents till further orders of this Court; and

4\. They shall make available for inspection by the plaintiffs all such
documents, account books, papers, etc. pertaining to the said business, if so
required.

30\. Application allowed.

