

Bombay High Court

Ramesh Khatanmal Lulla vs Mohammad Yusuf Abdul Gaffar on 6 June, 2017

Bench: S.B. Shukre

    
    
                                                   1
    
    
    
    
                     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY,
    
                                        NAGPUR BENCH : NAGPUR
    
    
    
    Appeal against Order No. 7 of 2017
    
    Appellant                :          Ramesh Khatanmal Lulla, aged about 
    
                                        44 years, Occupation : Business, Proprietor,
    
                                        M/s K.T. Food Products, M-11, MIDC, 
    
                                        Phase No. 4, Kumbhari Road, Akola
    
                                        versus
    
    Respondent               :          Mohammed Yusuf Abdul Gaffar, aged 

about 34 years, Occ: Business, Proprietor of New Dinar Trading Company,
resident of Ganga Nagar, Akola Shri Nitin Lalwani, Advocate for appellant Shri
S. S. Sarda, Advocate for respondent Coram : S. B. Shukre, J Dated : 6th June
2017 Oral Judgment

1\. Heard. Admit. Heard finally by consent of parties.  ::: Uploaded on -
07/06/2017 ::: Downloaded on - 08/06/2017 00:56:32 ::: 2

2\. Having considered the main ground of challenge, which is of not giving
sufficient opportunity of hearing to the appellant and also the relevant facts
and circumstances of the case, I am of the view that limited relief can be
granted to the appellant.

3\. Accordingly, appeal is allowed. The impugned order is hereby quashed and
set aside. The matter is remitted back to the trial Court for considering the
application (Exhibit 5) afresh in accordance with law. The application shall
be disposed of within one month from the date of appearance of the parties.
Both the parties shall cooperate with the trial Court in expeditious disposal
of the application within a time frame fixed by this Court and shall not seek
any adjournment unless the same is required to be sought for the reason beyond
their control. Both the parties to appear before the trial Court on 12.6.2017.
However, by way of ad-interim injunction, the appellant shall refrain from
using in any manner the duplicate trade mark till final disposal of the
application (Exhibit 5) by the trial Court. It is made clear that the ad-
interim injunction has been granted by this Court only to protect interests of
both the parties and, therefore, the trial Court shall not be influenced by
the order of this Court granting such ad-interim injunction in favour of the
respondent.

4\. Appeal is disposed of accordingly. No costs.

S. B. SHUKRE, J joshi  ::: Uploaded on - 07/06/2017 ::: Downloaded on -
08/06/2017 00:56:32 :::

